EVERYBODY TO THE
PUBLIC MARKET ADVISORY
COMMISSION MEETING IT IS
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 12, A 20TH
AND WE ARE IN PERSON AND IT IS
NOW FIVE THIRTY TWO.
STEPHANIE, CAN YOU DO THE ROLL
CALL OR CALL THE ORDER ROLL
CALL.
>> I GUESS I JUST CALLED THE
ORDER.
>> YES, I CAN DO THAT.
EXCUSE ME, COMMISSIONER HARDY
HERE COMMISSIONER WOLFE HERE.
>> COMMISSIONER BORG HERE.
COMMISSIONER YOUNG HERE.
ALL RIGHT.
NEXT WE'RE MOVING ON TO THE
APPROVAL OF THE AGENDA.
>> YEAH.
SO ACTUALLY PETER, I REALIZED
I'M JUST DOING THIS OK.
>> ALL RIGHT.
SO YOU ALL SORT OF GOTTEN THE
AGENDA AND ARE THERE ANY
CHANGES, ALTERATIONS, ADDITIONS
,ANYTHING LIKE THAT?
>> COULD I HAVE A MOTION TO
APPROVE?
I MOVE CAN I HAVE A SECOND AND
EVERYBODY WHO APPROVES AGREES
SAY I I UNANIMOUS.
AND OUR NEXT AGENDA ITEM IS THE
FIRST PUBLIC COMMENTARY.
>> SO DOES ANY MEMBER OF THE
PUBLIC HAVE A COMMENT TO
PROVIDE?
YOU CAN ALSO DO SO AT THE END
OF THE MEETING AS WELL.
>> AND THESE ARE AGENDA ITEMS,
RIGHT?
RIGHT.
YES.
THIS IS WHAT'S ON THE AGENDA.
MY NAME IS DEBBIE MARKS.
I'M ALREADY HAVING TROUBLE
HEARING YOU GUYS.
>> SO IF YOU COULD JUST SPEAK
UP PRETEND LIKE WAIT.
>> THANK YOU.
THANKS, DEBBIE.
ANYONE ELSE OK?
>> ALL RIGHT.
ALL RIGHT.
SO OUR NEXT ITEM IS THE
APPROVAL OF THE MINUTES FROM
THE JANUARY MEETING WHICH YOU
SHOULD HAVE GOTTEN IN YOUR
EMAIL.
>> UM, DOES ANYBODY HAVE ANY
CHANGES?
>> ALL RIGHT.
CAN I HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE?
>> A MOTION TO APPROVE AND A
SECOND SECOND EVERYBODY IN
FAVOR SAY AY AY GREAT UNANIMOUS
AGAIN.
ALL RIGHT.
SO NOW WE'RE ONTO THE NEXT ITEM
WHICH IS THE REGULAR BUSINESS,
THE AGENDA ITEMS.
>> TAKE IT AWAY, STEPHANIE.
ALL RIGHT.
SO THE FIRST AGENDA ITEM WE
HAVE OUR OFFICER ALEXION WHICH
HAPPENED AT THE JANUARY MEETING
THROUGH SECRET BALLOT AND LISA,
YOU WERE ELECTED AS THE CHAIR
YOU WERE TWENTY TWENTY FIVE AND
JEB IS OUR NEW VICE CHAIR.
>> SO CONGRATULATIONS DOUG UP
AND I WANTED TO THANK PETER FOR
HIS LONG YEARS OF SERVICE AND
WILL BE EXITING AT THE END
OF YOUR TERM.
>> THIS MAY.
>> SO THANKS AGAIN.
YEAH, AND THAT IS ALL I HAVE
FOR THAT AGENDA ITEM.
>> YEAH, IT'S A QUICK ONE.
>> SO THEN WE'RE DONE ON TO
GENERAL UPDATE'S.
>> CAN YOU HEAR ME DEBBIE DOES
THAT WORK OK MAYBE I'LL JUST
PULL IT CLOSER.
>> YEAH.
>> SO FOR OUR STAFFING UPDATES
WE ARE IN THE PROCESS OF HIRING
A NEW ASSISTANT MANAGER
OUTREACH COORDINATOR.
>> WE ARE HOPING THAT SHE LAYLA
IS HER NAME WILL BE STARTING BY
MARCH 1ST AT THE LATEST SHE IS
IN THE PROCESS OF ONBOARDING
WITH THE HUMAN RESOURCES
DEPARTMENT.
SHE'S BEEN MOVING THROUGH THE
PROCESS.
THERE'S AT LEAST ONE ITEM LEFT
BUT AGAIN THAT'S A VERY LARGE
RANGE OF HOW LONG THAT THAT
COULD TAKE.
>> WE ARE HOPING FOR MARCH
BECAUSE CURRENTLY I'M THE ONLY
STAFF AT MARKET.
THE OTHER REASON FOR THAT IS
LUNA IS CURRENTLY ON HER CITY
MANDATED TWO MONTHS OFF.
SHE WILL BE RETURNING ON THE
FOR THE APRIL 12TH MARKET WILL
BE THE FIRST MARKET SHE'LL
SHE'LL BE BACK FOR THAT.
SO THAT IS WHERE WE ARE RIGHT
NOW.
YES, IT'S IN PROCESS SO I DON'T
KNOW IF ANYONE HAS ANY
QUESTIONS OR COMMENTS FROM THE
COMMISSION THAT WAS VAST HIRE
THAT WAS GREAT.
>> YES, IT WAS REALLY GREAT.
BUT AGAIN THE ONBOARDING IS THE
REAL WILD CARD.
>> WE'RE NOT SURE HOW LONG WITH
PAPERWORK AND THINGS BUT AS I
SAID, THERE'S JUST ONE MORE
ITEM LEFT FOR HER AND THEN SHE
WILL BE WITH US SO AND A LITTLE
MORE ON HER BACKGROUND.
SHE IS LOCAL TO THE AREA.
SHE LIVES IN YPSILANTI.
SHE HAD SOME EXPERIENCE WITH
FARMS INCUBATOR FARMS UP NORTH.
>> SHE DID MANAGE A INCUBATOR
FARM UP THERE ALSO HAS AN
ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE AND
BIOLOGY BACKGROUND.
SO WE'RE REALLY EXCITED TO HAVE
HER JOINING US.
>> BUT WE DID HAVE OVER 20
APPLICANTS AND WE DID ABOUT SIX
INTERVIEWS SO WE HAD A LARGE
PROCESS AND YEAH, GREAT GREAT
TURNOUT AND IT'S ALWAYS GOOD TO
HAVE MORE PEOPLE THAN WE CAN
USE.
>> BUT ALSO, YOU KNOW, IT'S A
BALANCE AND THAT IS ALL I HAVE
ON THAT.
>> GREAT.
WE'RE EXCITED TO MEET HER NEXT
AS VENDOR APPLICATIONS.
>> ALL RIGHT.
SO WE ARE IN VENDOR APPLICATION
SEASON THAT IS BOTH FOR
RETURNING VENDORS AS WELL AS
FOR NEW VENDORS.
WE ARE IN A HYBRID SITUATION
RIGHT NOW BECAUSE WE DO HAVE A
NEW ONLINE APPLICATION BUT
WE'RE IN THAT TRANSITION MAKING
SURE THAT PEOPLE THAT AREN'T
COMFORTABLE WITH DOING THAT OR
NEED ASSISTANCE WITH THAT ARE
STILL ABLE TO DO A PAPER COPY
OR ARE ABLE TO KIND OF DO BOTH
IN A WAY SO WE ARE STILL
WORKING ON THAT.
>> THE DEADLINE OF COURSE IS
MARCH 1ST AS IT ALWAYS IS AND
WE'VE GOT A GOOD NUMBER
OF PEOPLE TURNED EVERYTHING IN
SO FAR.
>> BUT YOU KNOW, THERE'S ALWAYS
A BIG RUSH IN THE LAST LAST BIT
.
DON'T THINK THAT THIS YEAR WILL
BE ANY DIFFERENT ON THAT IN
TERMS OF THE APPLICATION ITSELF
,WE ARE STILL ACTIVELY WORKING
WITH IT TO TRY AND IDENTIFY IF
THERE'S ANY WAYS THAT IT COULD
BE IMPROVED THINGS THAT COULD
MAKE IT EASIER FOR PEOPLE.
I KNOW ONE OF THE FEEDBACKS WE
GOT ALREADY WAS THAT YOU KNOW,
IT'S HARD FOR SOME FOLKS TO NOT
HAVE IT BE PRE POPULATED WITH
INFORMATION BUT UNFORTUNATELY
THAT WAS SORT OF THE TRADE OFF
WITH THE PARTICULAR TYPE
OF SOFTWARE THAT WE USED TO
CREATE THE APPLICATION BUT
STILL WORKING THAT OUT SEEING
IF THERE'S A DIFFERENT WAY OR
AN ADDITIONAL THING WE CAN ADD
LIKE MAYBE ADD BACK A VERSION
OF THE PRODUCT LIST THAT WE HAD
BEFORE TO SORT OF , YOU KNOW,
DEAL WITH THAT.
>> BUT THAT IS GOING ON AND
THEY'VE BEEN VERY HELPFUL.
>> THEY'VE BEEN VERY QUICK TO
MAKE ANY EDITS THAT WE SUGGEST
.
>> BUT AGAIN IT'S AN ONGOING
PROCESS AS ANYONE HAS ANY
FEEDBACK WE'D LOVE TO HEAR IT
BECAUSE AGAIN WE ARE LOOKING TO
MAKE SOMETHING THAT IS USER
FRIENDLY FOR ALL NOT JUST FOR
MARKET STUFF OR NOT JUST FOR
PEOPLE THAT FEEL COMFORTABLE
USING THE INTERNET.
>> SO THAT IS WHERE WE ARE AT
WITH OUR CHANGE FOR RETURNING
VENDORS, SPECIFICALLY FOR OUR
NEW VENDORS.
OBVIOUSLY, YOU KNOW WE'RE
GETTING A LOT OF APPLICATIONS
RIGHT NOW.
IT'S THAT TIME OF YEAR WE TEND
TO STILL GET MANY WHO ARE
ARTISAN NON-FOOD VENDORS, SOME
BAKED GOODS, SOME PREPARED FOOD
.
>> WE'VE ACTUALLY GOTTEN AT
LEAST ONE IF NOT TWO ACTUAL
FARMS.
>> SO WE'RE VERY EXCITED WITH
THE PROSPECT OF BRINGING SOME
NEW FARMS ON AND THAT IS ALSO
AS WE HAVE SOME RETIREMENT AND
PEOPLE MOVING ON AS WELL.
>> SO THAT SHOULD BE WORKING
OUT.
BUT I'M STILL IN THE PROCESS
OF ASSESSING VENDOR
APPLICATIONS BASED ON SPACE,
BASED ON NEED AND ALL OF THAT
STUFF IN TERMS OF OTHER EVENT
APPLICATIONS.
>> SO LIKE OUR FOOD TRUCK RALLY
APPLICATIONS, I JUST SENT THAT
OUT TO OUR RETURNING VENDOR
YESTERDAY AND WE'VE ALREADY
GOTTEN FOUR APPLICANTS TO
SUBMIT.
SO YOU KNOW, WE'RE WE'RE IN
PROCESS ON THAT TOO.
WE ALSO BROUGHT OUR COMMUNITY
GROUPS APPLICATION INTO AN
ONLINE FORMAT.
>> WE'VE HAD AT LEAST TWO
PEOPLE SIGN UP SO FAR AND SAME
THING WITH OUR LIVE MUSIC
PEOPLE SO TRYING TO MAKE THAT A
LITTLE BIT MORE ACCESSIBLE, A
LITTLE BIT MORE TRACKABLE.
>> SO THAT IS WHERE WE ARE IN
OUR OVERVIEW OF APPLICATIONS.
>> I DON'T KNOW IF FOLKS HAD
SPECIFIC QUESTIONS OR COMMENTS
ON THAT.
OK, I GUESS THAT'S A NO ALL
RIGHT.
>> NEXT THING ON THE LIST IS
EVENTS.
WELL, I GUESS THAT'S A GOOD
SEGUE.
I WAS ALREADY TALKING ABOUT THE
FUTURE RALLIES WE ARE PLANNING
ON HAVING THE SAME SCHEDULE
THAT WE HAVE HAD IN THE PAST.
SO FOR FUTURE RALLIES THIRD
WEDNESDAYS STARTING AFTER
WEDNESDAY MARKET YOU KNOW,
FOCUSING ON GIVING HIGH
PRIORITY TO THE PEOPLE THAT
HAVE BEEN WITH US FOR THE PAST
FEW YEARS OF COURSE ALSO TRY
AND OPEN THE DOOR TO PREPARED
FOOD VENDORS THAT ARE REGULAR
VENDORS THAT MIGHT WANT TO JOIN
IT OPENING THE DOOR FOR WHOEVER
ELSE AS LONG AS WE HAVE SPACE
THAT IS DEFINITELY AN EVENT
THAT WE ARE SHORT ON SPACE FOR
COMPARED TO THE DEMAND THAT WE
HAVE.
SO THAT'S BEEN A BALANCE.
I'M SURE IT'S GOING TO BE THE
SAME THIS YEAR AND THIS YEAR
WE'VE TRIED TO DO A LITTLE BIT
MORE OF A THEMATIC EMPHASIS
WHATEVER THAT WILL LOOK LIKE IS
STILL BEING WORKED OUT.
BUT AT LEAST FOR OUR AUGUST
RALLY WE ARE TRYING TO
EMPHASIZE PLANT BASED AND
VEGETARIAN OPTIONS AND THAT'S
BECAUSE WE GOT A LOT
OF REQUESTS FROM VENDORS AS
WELL AS CUSTOMERS TO DO THAT.
AND JUST TO BE CLEAR, THAT'S
JUST GOING TO BE A CELEBRATION
AND EMPHASIS ON THAT ANYONE IS
WELCOME BUT THAT'S JUST
GOING
TO BE OUR FOCUS FOR THAT
PARTICULAR RALLY AND WE'RE
STILL WORKING OUT THE OTHER
THINGS IN TERMS OF OTHER
EVENTS.
>> WE APPLIED FOR A GRANT FOR
OUR COOKING DEMOS TO BE
SPONSORED ON A FOOD SAFETY
GRANT THAT MICHIGAN FARMERS
MARKET ASSOCIATION HAS BEEN
DOING.
>> WE HAVE NOT YET HEARD BACK
ON THAT.
BUT THE GOOD NEWS IS WE THAT IS
A FUND THAT COMES FROM A STATE
SOURCE.
SO THAT IS STILL POTENTIALLY IN
PLAY.
WE'RE JUST WAITING TO HEAR BACK
FROM THEM BUT I DON'T IMAGINE
IT WOULD BE DISRUPTED FOR ANY
REASON AND THEN OTHER EVENTS
YOU KNOW, WE'RE JUST WORKING
OUT THE CALENDAR FLOWER SHOULD
STILL BE THE USUAL PLACE THAT
IT IS THE SUNDAY OF MEMORIAL
DAY WEEKEND AND AGAIN, YOU
KNOW, JUST STARTING TO RAMP UP
WITH SCHEDULING AND PLANNING AS
WE GET THE COMMUNITY GROUP
APPLICATIONS, AS WE GET MOBILE
FOOD VENDOR APPLICATIONS FOR
OUR FOOD TRUCKS AND CARTS THAT
WANT TO BE WITH US ON MARKET
DAYS WHEN WE HAVE SPACE AND ALL
OF THOSE OTHER ASPECTS.
ANY QUESTIONS?
SO WHAT IS THE DATES AGAIN FOR
THE FOOD TRUCK RALLIES DO THERE
IS A SET OR ARE THEY?
>> YEAH IT'S THE THIRD
WEDNESDAYS WEDNESDAYS AND WHICH
MONTH?
>> JULY THROUGH OCTOBER .
YES.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS.
>> OK, ALL RIGHT NEXT IS
FACILITIES AND REPAIRS OK IT'S
ALWAYS A BIG ONE SO IN TERMS
OF THE FACILITY I KNOW THAT
THEY ARE VERY CLOSE TO MOVING
FORWARD WITH THE BIRD NETTING
PROPOSAL HOPEFULLY THAT IT WILL
BE UP BY APRIL.
THAT IS WHAT I WAS TOLD
YESTERDAY.
>> SO I'M HOPING THAT THAT WILL
IN FACT OCCUR.
>> I KNOW THAT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED BY MULTIPLE FOLKS
INCLUDING MARKET STAFF FOR A
WHILE AND IT'S JUST BEEN YOU
DIFFICULTY WITH PARK OPERATIONS
AND HAVING SO MANY SITES AND
ALL OF THAT STUFF AND THEN
OF COURSE ALSO WITH THE
DEMOLITION PROJECT COMING UP
HAVING TO PRIORITIZE THINGS,
GETTING READY FOR THAT WHILE
ALSO MAKING SURE THAT OUR
SPACES MAINTAINED.
>> I KNOW THERE'S ALSO BEEN
SOME EROSION OF THE POSTS DUE
TO HIGH LEVELS OF SALT BECAUSE
IT'S BEEN SO COLD THIS WINTER.
SO AGAIN HOPING THAT THAT WILL
BE FOLDED INTO OUR BROADER
CONVERSATION WITH THE COMMUNITY
ENGAGEMENT PROCESS BECAUSE
AGAIN WE ALL KNOW THAT IS VERY
IMPORTANT TO THINK ABOUT.
BUT OTHER THAN THAT, YOU KNOW
EVERYTHING FOR RIGHT NOW STILL
IT'S WINTER SO A LOT OF THE
OTHER THINGS REALLY ARE NOT IN
USE YET OR AREN'T ON OUR RADAR.
SO EXCITING ABOUT THE BIRD
NETTING.
>> YES.
WOW.
YES.
OK, AND IT WAS SOMETHING I DID
NOT HAVE TO ASK ABOUT THIS TIME
I WAS TOLD TO DO SO THAT I WAS
LIKE THAT YOU KNOW THAT'S A
GOOD SIGN.
>> YES, DEFINITELY.
THAT'S FANTASTIC.
UM THEN THE BYLAWS REVISIONS.
>> ALL RIGHT.
WELL I HAVE VERY GOOD NEWS AS
OF TUESDAY THIS WEEK OUR BYLAW
REVISIONS ARE OFFICIALLY
ADOPTED RIGHT ELECTIONS ALL
THAT MEANS THAT WE ARE ABLE TO
GROW THE BODY BY TWO MEMBERS
AND EVERYTHING ELSE THAT WE
CHANGED GOES INTO EFFECT.
>> SO YOU KNOW, IT HAPPENED.
>> WE TOOK OVER A YEAR BUT IT
HAPPENED.
YES.
SO NOW WE NEED TO THINK ABOUT
YOU KNOW, IF THERE'S ANY PEOPLE
THAT WE WANT TO REACH OUT TO
THAT WE KNOW THAT WE WOULD LIKE
TO RECRUIT BECAUSE WE HAVE TO
ACTUALLY FILL THREE POSITIONS
BECAUSE THE SADNESS OF PETER
DEPARTING SO SO CAN WE REVIEW
WHAT THE CRITERIA FOR THE
PEOPLE WHO WE'RE LOOKING FOR
ARE THAT JUST SO EVERYONE KNOWS
BECAUSE IT'S LIKE I'M THE
SHOPPER'S REPRESENTATIVE OR
SOMETHING LIKE THAT A TUMOR
CONSUMER REPRESENTATIVE AND SO
THAT SLOT WILL NEED TO BE
FILLED IN THE OTHER TWO THAT WE
PUT IN THERE THAT THERE WAS ONE
THAT WAS AT LARGE.
>> YES.
AND ANOTHER ONE WHICH WAS ALSO
THEN BETTER.
>> YEAH, YEAH YEAH.
SO IT'S OUT IN TV LAND OR OUT
IN REAL LAND THERE'S A VENDOR
OR SOMEONE PUBLIC AT LARGE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO BE PART OF THIS
BOARD.
WE'D VERY MUCH WELCOME YOU
BEING PART OF THIS.
WE DO NEED TO KEEP YOUR
PARTICIPATION IN THIS IS REALLY
IMPORTANT AND PARTICULARLY AS
WE DO THIS EXPANSION IT'S GOING
TO BE A BIG OR THE NEXT STEPS.
WE NEED A LOT OF HANDS AND IT
TAKES A LOT OF PLANNING TO TRY
TO WORK THESE THINGS OUT.
AND IT'S A SMALL WORLD WHERE
THERE'S ONE OF THE SMALLEST
BODIES RIGHT NOW AND SO ADDING
IN THESE FEW EXTRA PEOPLE WILL
MAKE A HUGE DIFFERENCE.
BUT WE DO NEED TO HAVE
PARTICIPATE.
THIS IS A GREAT TIME FOR
GETTING PEOPLE IN AND LEARNING
ABOUT THE SYSTEM AND LEARNING
HOW TO PARTICIPATE AND MAKE
THINGS GO.
>> IT'S IT'S IMPORTANT.
>> SO YEAH.
SO I THINK THAT AT LARGE WAS
EITHER A VENDOR CONSUMER OR A
NEIGHBOR.
EXACTLY.
A THIRD CATEGORY.
>> YEAH.
SO YEAH ONE OF THE OTHER
CATEGORIES IN THERE.
>> YEAH YEAH YEAH.
AND STEPHANIE CAN PEOPLE START
PUTTING IN THEIR APPLICATIONS
IN THE CITY EVEN IF THE
POSITIONS AREN'T OPEN.
>> I'M THINKING PARTICULARLY
ABOUT PETERS.
YEAH I'M SURE I MEAN IT'S
ALWAYS OPEN OK SO THE MECHANISM
FOR THAT IS HOW DO YOU KNOW HOW
WHERE THEY PUT OUT WHERE THEY
GIVE THEIR APPLICATION AND
THINGS LIKE THAT.
>> IT'S THAT LINK THAT THAT'S
SOME THAT'S WHAT I TELL PEOPLE
DO IT AS THAT WORKS SOMETIMES
THERE'S A LINK SOMEWHERE THAT
SOMETIMES WORKS.
YES.
YEAH I THINK IF YOU LOOK IT UP
THE CITY ANN ARBOR WEBSITE AND
THEN PUT IN T-MAC FOR PUBLIC
MARKET ADVISORY COMMISSION
THAT'S WHERE YOU CAN GET TO THE
THE APPLICANTS OR THE
APPLICATIONS AND IT WAS DONE
LEGIS STARTS JUSSARA IT'S JUST
THAT SOMETIMES THE LINK THAT
I'VE BEEN GIVEN DIRECTLY FROM
THE CLERK LIKE WELL I DON'T
KNOW IF IT WILL TIME OUT OR
ONLY WORK FOR A CERTAIN AMOUNT
OF TIME.
>> SO JUST CONTINUALLY CHECKING
BACK THERE.
YEAH AND IT'S IF I REMEMBER
RIGHT IT'S A COUPLE
OF QUESTIONS ON A RESUME.
>> YEAH.
AND SO THEN IT GETS REVIEWED BY
THE MAYOR AS IT'S NOT ACTUALLY
COUNTY CITY COUNCIL APPROVED IT
OR SOMETHING THAT IS
APPOINTMENTS IN THAT WAY RIGHT.
>> YEAH IT WAS A MAYORAL
MAYORAL DECISION.
YEAH I HAVE NO ROLE IN THAT.
>> A BODY HAS NO ROLE IN
CHOOSING.
YEAH.
>> SO YES THAT IS A GOOD ONE
AND THAT WAS ON THAT WAS ON THE
SECOND READING OF THAT AND
THAT'S JUST THE PROCESS THAT
THEY GO THROUGH WITHIN COUNCIL
AS FAR AS I KNOW THERE WAS NO
QUESTIONS ABOUT IT.
>> THERE WAS NO ROADBLOCKS AT
ALL.
>> SO IT WAS VERY
STRAIGHTFORWARD PROCESS, GREAT
.
AND YOU KNOW, IF THERE WERE A
CITY DID ANY EDITS BECAUSE WE
SHOULD JUST GET THE FINAL COPY
OF WHAT THEY APPROVED?
>> NO, I DON'T THINK THERE WAS
ANY ADDITIONAL CHANGES BASED
FOR WHAT WE SPOKE ABOUT BEFORE.
>> OK, SO THAT'S NOT JUST AN
EXPANSION THAT IS ALSO TERM
LIMITS AND AN EDITING OF OUR
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE CONFLICT
OF INTEREST TO JUST MAKE IT
MORE IN LINE WITH WHAT THIS
BODY IS AND DOES.
BUT YES, WE'LL DEFINITELY HAVE
THAT AVAILABLE.
IT MIGHT EVEN ALREADY BE
AVAILABLE ON PUBLIC WEBSITES.
>> OK, I REMEMBER SOMETIMES
THERE ARE SURPRISINGLY HARD TO
FIND SOMETIMES WHICH IS
UNFORTUNATE BECAUSE LIKE WHEN I
CAME IN HERE IT'S SOMETHING I
THINK WE SHOULD AS A BODY TO
KIND OF MAKE SURE THAT ANY NEW
MEMBERS GET IT IMMEDIATELY YOU
GET A CHANCE TO GO THROUGH IT
BECAUSE IT REALLY IS THE
ORGANIZING ARTICLE ABOUT WHAT
THIS BODY DOES.
>> YEAH, AND IF YOU DON'T GET
IT MULTIPLE YEARS TO BE IT'S
KIND OF A MISSING PRAUSNITZ.
>> OH YEAH I AGREE AND I'LL
ALSO SHARE IT WITH BOUNDERS IN
MY EMAIL NEXT WEEK.
I JUST WANTED TO MAKE SURE IT
WAS ALL SET BEFORE DOING THAT
GREAT.
ALL RIGHT.
AND NEXT THING IS CONSTRUCTION
AND DEMOLITION UPDATES.
>> ALL RIGHT.
WELL WE HAVE SOME GUESTS THAT
ARE JOINING US TO COME TALK A
LITTLE BIT MORE ABOUT THE ONE
TWENTY ONE CATHERINE STREET
DEVELOPMENT WHICH OF COURSE IS
RIGHT ACROSS THE STREET FROM
THE FOURTH AVENUE ENTRANCE
OF THE MARKET PARKING LOT.
>> SO PLEASE COME FORWARD AND
YOU CAN INTRODUCE YOURSELF WHEN
YOU GET HERE.
HI, THANKS.
I'M WENDY CARIDDI SACHS AND THE
DIRECTOR OF REAL ESTATE
DEVELOPMENT AT AVALON HOUSING.
>> GOOD EVENING TIM STOUT.
I'M A PROJECT MANAGER FOR
O'NIEL CONSTRUCTION AND I JUST
WANTED TO GIVE SOME REAL SORT
OF BRIEF GENERAL OVERVIEW THEN
HANDED OVER TO TIM TO TALK
ABOUT THE ACTUAL CONSTRUCTION
SO RIGHT.
>> ONE TWENTY ONE KATHRYN KNOWN
AS DUNBAR TOWER AVALON IS
CO DEVELOPING AND OWNING IT
WITH THE ANN ARBOR HOUSING
COMMISSION.
THEIR DEVELOPMENT WING, THE
HOUSING DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION.
>> THEY ARE THE LEAD ON IT BUT
WE'RE ALSO PART OF THE ENTITY.
>> IT'S GOING TO BE SIX
STOREYS.
SIXTY THREE UNITS.
SIXTY TWO ONE BEDROOMS ONE TWO
BEDROOM UNIT.
IT'S WELL UNDER CONSTRUCTION
NOW BEGAN IN APRIL OF TWENTY
TWENTY FOUR AND SCHEDULED FOR
COMPLETION IN FEBRUARY
OF TWENTY TWENTY SIX OF THOSE
SIXTY THREE UNITS JUST KIND
OF BROADLY HALF OF THOSE WILL
BE FOR HOUSEHOLDS EXPERIENCING
HOMELESSNESS AND THEN THE OTHER
HALF WILL BE FOR ARTISTS OR
CREATIVE FOLKS THAT ARE QUALIFY
INCOME WISE AND THERE'S ALSO
THE EXCITING GROUND FLOOR
COMMUNITY SPACE REALLY
REFLECTING HISTORY OF THE
NEIGHBORHOOD AS A REAL THRIVING
AFRICAN-AMERICAN
ENTREPRENEURIAL AND RESIDENTIAL
AREA.
THE HOUSING COMMISSION WILL
MANAGE AND MAINTAIN IT AND
AVALON WILL PROVIDE SERVICES TO
THE HOUSEHOLDS THERE.
SO YEAH, LET ME TURN IT OVER TO
HIM.
THANK YOU.
YEAH, WE'RE WE'RE ABOUT A YEAR
AWAY FROM COMPLETION SO WE JUST
FINISHED THE STRUCTURE FOR THE
SECOND FLOOR THAT'S A CAST IN
PLACE CONCRETE DECK AND WHAT
YOU'LL SEE OVER THE NEXT FOUR
TO SIX WEEKS IS A BUNCH
OF VERTICAL MASONRY.
WE'RE GOING TO BE WORKING ON
THE ELEVATOR TOWER AND THE TWO
STAIR TOWERS
TO THE ROOF AND
THEN IN THE NEXT MONTH AND A
HALF OR TWO MONTHS OR SO WE'LL
START TO SEE THE INTERIOR AND
FACADE WALLS TAKE SHAPE, CLIMB
TO THAT SIXTH FLOOR, PUT THE
ROOF ON AND GET THE WINDOWS IN.
SO IT'LL PROBABLY ENCLOSED
SOMETIME MIDSUMMER.
SO THE ARRANGEMENT YOU'RE
PROBABLY MOST INTERESTED IN IS
SORT OF THE FOOTPRINT OF THE
CONSTRUCTION AND WHERE WE'RE
SET UP CURRENTLY WHERE WE'VE
GOT SOME SIDEWALK CLOSURES ON
KATHERINE AND ON THE THAT WOULD
BE THE WEST SIDE OF FORTH THOSE
ARE GOING TO BE IN PLACE FOR
ABOUT THE NEXT TEN OR ELEVEN
MONTHS.
WE DON'T EXPECT A LOT OF IMPACT
BEYOND THOSE LIMITS RIGHT NOW.
SO IF YOU WERE TO GO OUTSIDE TO
THE SITE, WHAT YOU SEE IS KIND
OF A LONG TERM ARRANGEMENT FOR
FOR HOW WE WILL BE THERE MAY BE
SOME MINOR IMPACTS INTO FOURTH
AVENUE THAT WILL COMMUNICATE
ABOUT AHEAD OF TIME AND THEY'D
BE VERY SHORT TERM.
WE HAVE TRIED TO SCHEDULE ANY
CLOSURES FOR NONMARKET DAYS
WHENEVER POSSIBLE.
WE'RE AWARE OF YOUR SCHEDULE
AND WE'RE CERTAINLY TRYING TO
ACCOMMODATE SO HAPPY TO ANSWER
ANY QUESTIONS ABOUT ANY
OF THAT.
>> GREAT.
THANK YOU.
QUESTIONS
.
>> GREAT.
ALL RIGHT.
AND STEPHANIE AND I ARE GOING
TO BE IN TOUCH MOVING FORWARD
TO SO YEAH.
>> AND YEAH WE'RE REALLY
EXCITED ABOUT THE PROJECT YOU
GO ON IT'S REALLY HELPFUL TO
HEAR MORE ABOUT IT IN TERMS
OF DETAILS BECAUSE IT'S LIKE WE
KNEW SOME IN THE BEGINNING BUT
HOW HAS THAT EVOLVED AND WHERE
ARE WE AT?
SO I REALLY APPRECIATE YOU
TAKING THE TIME TO COME OUT AND
BE WITH US AND ALSO CONTINUING
THAT RELATIONSHIP MOVING
FORWARD WITH COMMUNICATION AND
WE'RE ALSO REALLY EXCITED FOR
AVALON TO BE RIGHT THERE
BECAUSE AGAIN WE HAVE A LARGE
PORTION OF OUR CUSTOMER BASE
THAT IS USING FOOD ASSISTANCE
AND MAYBE THERE'S WAYS THAT WE
CAN CONNECT AND BROADEN THAT
RELATIONSHIP.
>> WE'RE LOOKING FORWARD TO
THAT.
SO GREAT HAVING SOMEONE FROM
THAT SITE WOULD BE GREAT TO BE
ON THIS BOARD TO FIND.
OH, NICE, NICE.
I HAVE ONE QUICK QUESTION.
DO YOU HAVE AN IDEA WHAT THE
COMPLETION DATE IS?
I TURNED TO TEN ELEVEN MONTHS
FOR THE ROAD CONSTRUCTION AREA
SO TARGETING FEBRUARY 1ST
OF TWENTY TWENTY SIX FEBRUARY A
YEAR.
A YEAR YEAH.
JUST SHY SO WE WOULD BACK OFF
OF THE SIDEWALK CLOSURES PRIOR
TO THAT POINT AS WE'RE KIND
OF IN THE FINAL STAGES.
>> THANKS MAMCHUR.
>> AND THEN WHEN DO YOU WHEN DO
YOU EXPECT PEOPLE TO START
MOVING IN.
YEAH SO GENERALLY AS SOON AS WE
GET OUR CERTIFICATES
OF OCCUPANCY THE PROPERTY
MANAGEMENT IS READY TO MOVE
FOLKS IN SO STARTING THAT
FEBRUARY SO YEAR FROM NOW I
THINK OUR LEASE UP IS OVER A
COUPLE OF MONTHS.
YOU KNOW BY FEBRUARY THROUGH
APRIL ISH WHERE IT YOU GET
FULLY LEASED UP.
>> GREAT.
>> HOW ARE YOU GOING TO RECRUIT
THE ARTISTS?
WELL THERE'S A WHOLE PROCESS
WITH IT ACTUALLY.
WE'RE WORKING WITH ARTSPACE
WHO'S DONE OTHER DEVELOPMENTS
IN MICHIGAN TARGETING OUR
ARTISTS THAT HAVE OUR SIMILAR
FUNDING TO SO WE'RE WORKING
WITH THEM AND SEEING HOW THEIR
SAMPLES WILL BE A COMMITTEE
OF FOLKS THAT ARE ALSO ARTISTS
THAT WILL KIND OF REVIEW IT'S
YOU DON'T NEED TO MAKE YOUR
LIVING FROM ART TO REALLY JUST
SHOWING YOUR INTEREST IN YOUR
PASSION.
YOU MAY DO OTHER THINGS YOU'RE
LIVING BUT YEAH, THAT'LL BE AN
INTERESTING PIECE AND IS THERE
STUDIO SPACE THAT WAS PLANNED
FOR THE ARTISTS?
>> THERE'S NOT SPECIFIC STUDIO
SPACE BUT WE TRY TO SORT
OF KEEP IN MIND THE KINDS
OF THINGS THAT MIGHT BE HELPFUL
AND I WOULD SAY DEFINITELY LIKE
SHOWING SPACE PROBABLY WITH
BOTH THE THERE'S A RESIDENTIAL
COMMUNITY SPACE AND THEN THE
OTHER OUTWARD FACING AND
HOPEFULLY WE'LL HAVE SOME
OVERLAP WITH THAT AND IN
THROUGH THE BUILDING IN OUR
HALLWAYS AND YOU KNOW, WE'VE
GOT COMMUNITY SPACE ON THE
GROUND FLOOR AND UP ON THE
SIXTH FLOOR.
SO WE'RE REALLY TRYING TO
INCORPORATE ART.
>> YOU KNOW WHERE WE CAN.
YEAH, GREAT.
THANK YOU.
THANKS.
EXCITED TO SEE IT MOVING
FORWARD.
THANKS.
ANYTHING ELSE ON CONSTRUCTION?
>> UM, NOT ON CONSTRUCTION BUT
DEMOLITION.
>> SO I JUST WANTED TO MAKE
SPACE FOR ANY MORE CONSTRUCTION
STUFF NOT AS OF RIGHT NOW BUT
I'VE STILL BEEN IN REGULAR
CONTACT WITH THE CITY PLANNERS
AND THEY'VE BEEN REACHING OUT
AND CONSTANTLY TO GET OTHER
DEVELOPERS TO BE FORTHCOMING
WITH US FOR INFORMATION.
>> SO THAT'S WHY WE VERY MUCH
APPRECIATE THESE FOLKS STEPPING
UP WITH VERY LITTLE NOTICE TO
BE HERE.
>> BUT THAT'S ALL WE HAVE FOR
RIGHT NOW.
>> OK, GREAT.
OK, THE DEMOLITION.
>> ALL RIGHT.
SO THE DEMOLITION IS GOING TO
BE MID MARCH TO THE END
OF APRIL AND THIS IS BECAUSE
OF IT BEING COUPLED WITH OTHER
DEMOLITION PROJECTS THROUGHOUT
THE CITY AND WE COULDN'T RESIST
OR WE COULDN'T BEGIN THE
DEMOLITION OF THE MARKET OFFICE
BUILDING UNTIL THOSE ARE
COMPLETED.
SO WE'RE FINALLY AT A TIME
WHERE WE KNOW AND ALSO PART
OF THE DELAY IS US HAVING TO
MOVE OUR ELECTRIC WILL OUT
OF THE BUILDING AND PUTTING IT
UNDERGROUND SO THAT CAN STILL
RUN TO THE OFFICE TRAILER.
>> SO WE STILL HAVE POWER BUT
DOING THAT IN A WAY THAT'S THE
LEAST DISRUPTIVE IN TERMS
OF NOT HAVING OVERHEAD WIRES
WHICH TRUCKS MAY BE ABLE TO,
YOU KNOW, HIT.
SO THAT'S PART OF IT.
THEY HAVE ALREADY TAKEN DOWN
SOME TREES AS WE MENTIONED
BEFORE, THAT WE'RE VERY
DEAD THAT ARE SORT OF IN THE
FOOTPRINT OF THE DEMOLITION.
EVERYTHING ELSE YOU KNOW, THE
ELECTRICAL ITSELF HAS ALREADY
BEEN MOVED OUT OF THE OFFICE
BUILDING BUT WE'RE JUST WAITING
FOR IT TO GET BURIED
UNDERGROUND BEFORE MOVING
FORWARD.
THE INTERNET, OF COURSE WAS
MOVED A WHILE AGO AND YEAH.
SO WE'RE WE'RE MOVING FORWARD
ON THAT.
I SAW A FLIER YESTERDAY THAT
WILL BE TELLING THE PUBLIC A
LITTLE BIT MORE ABOUT WHAT TO
EXPECT WITH CLOSURES IN THE
PARKING LOT ITSELF BECAUSE
THERE'S GOING TO BE SOME MORE
CLOSURES IN THE PARKING LOT ON
NONMARKET DAYS AND THERE ARE ON
MARKETING OBVIOUSLY MARKET DAYS
PEOPLE CLOSEST TO THE STALLS.
THOSE SPOTS WILL NOT BE
DISRUPTED BUT THEY WILL BE
CLOSING THE OTHER PARKING AREAS
THAT FOLKS HAVE ASSIGNED NEXT
TO THE SANDLOT, SPECIFICALLY
THE SOUTH SIDE OF THE SANDLOT
AND THE WEST SIDE OF THE OFFICE
BUILDING.
SO THOSE SPECIFIC SPOTS THERE
WILL BE IN PLAY BUT OF COURSE,
YOU KNOW, SINCE IT'S THE
WINTERTIME WE'RE HOPING THAT
WILL HAVE MINIMAL IMPACTS.
BUT IF PEOPLE ARE GOING TO LOSE
AN INSTALL OR EXCUSE ME ASIDE
PARKING SPOT, WE'RE GOING TO
FIND THEM ANOTHER SPACE AND
IT'S NOT GOING TO BE DISRUPTIVE
BECAUSE AGAIN IT'S HOPEFULLY
THAT'S THE PLAN THAT IT'S IS
BEFORE THE HIGH SEASON REALLY
GETS RAMPED UP AGAIN IN MAY.
SO THAT IS WHERE WE ARE RIGHT
NOW AND THEY WERE HOPING TO BE
ABLE TO COME AND TALK ABOUT IT
BUT WERE UNABLE SPECIFICALLY
ADAM WAS UNABLE TO BE HERE THIS
EVENING.
>> SO ANY QUESTIONS OR COMMENTS
?
>> I'M JUST WONDERING ABOUT THE
NEXT PHASE IN TERMS OF THE
REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL GOING OUT
FOR THE COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT
AND ONCE THE BUILDING IS DOWN,
HOW FAST WILL THAT ALL START
HAPPENING?
AND I KNOW ADAM'S NOT HERE BUT
IF YOU'VE HAD ANY ANY INSIGHTS
INTO THAT PROCESS AS FAR AS I
KNOW IT'S STILL ON THE SAME
SCHEDULE FOR STARTING IN THE
THE WARMER TIME OF YEAR.
>> BUT OTHER THAN THAT, I'M NOT
SURE.
>> ALL I KNOW IS THAT FOR THE
THE FOOTPRINT OF THE OLD OFFICE
THEY WILL BE CAPPING IT
TEMPORARILY.
SO WITH CONCRETE PADS WE'LL BE
ABLE TO USE IT IF WE NEED TO IF
WE NEED TO HAVE EXTRA VENDOR
SPACE THERE, IF WE WANT TO TURN
IT INTO A STAGE FOR LIVE MUSIC.
I MEAN ALL OPTIONS ARE ON THE
TABLE FOR THE INTERIM BUT WE DO
NOT KNOW YET THE TIMELINE OR
HOW LONG IT'S GOING TO TAKE TO
REPLACE THE BUILDING.
>> YEAH, SO I'M THINKING
SPECIFICALLY ABOUT THE SORT
OF REVISIONING, PLANNING AND
COMMUNICATING ENGAGEMENT AND I
UNDERSTAND THE WARM MONTHS BUT
THEY WERE GOING TO HIRE AN
OUTSIDE FIRM TO DO THAT WORK.
>> IF I REMEMBER CORRECTLY THAT
YOU GUYS REMEMBER.
SO I'M JUST WONDERING ON WHEN
THEY'LL START SEARCHING FOR
THAT FIRM BECAUSE WE ONLY HAVE
TWO MONTHS UNTIL IT STARTS
GETTING WARM.
>> RIGHT.
>> AND AS I KNOW THERE HAS BEEN
NO NEW INFORMATION THAT IS
AVAILABLE AT LEAST THE LAST
TIME I TALKED TO ADAM.
>> SO AS FAR AS I KNOW, IT'S
STILL IN THAT PLAN BUT I DO NOT
KNOW ANY MORE DETAILS ON THAT.
SO WAS THE DO THEY HAVE A PLAN
PICKED UP FROM THE NEW BUILDING
YET?
NO, BUT IT IS GOING TO BE ON
THE SAME FOOTPRINT AS THE OLD
ONE UNKNOWN HOPEFULLY BUT
UNCLEAR BECAUSE THAT'S REALLY
WHAT WAS HAPPENING IS THAT THEY
WERE WAITING FOR ALL THE
DEMOLITION TO HAPPEN SO THAT
THEY COULD THEN BEGIN THE
CONVERSATION ABOUT WHAT WOULD
BE REPLACING.
>> SO WE'RE STILL, YOU KNOW, A
COUPLE OF YEARS OUT AT LEAST SO
IS THE PLAN FOR THE NEXT FEW
YEARS JUST THE TRAILER BACK
UNTIL UNTIL IT'S WE HAVE
SOMETHING ELSE THAT'S WHERE
WE'LL ARE.
>> ARE THEY GOING TO MOVE THE
TRAILER?
WELL, THAT WOULDN'T MAKE ANY
SENSE TO MOVE IT BACK WHERE THE
OFFICE WAS.
>> SO I GUESS IT WORK THAT'S
WHERE YOU'RE GOING TO BE.
I WILL SAY THOUGH THAT WHERE
THE PORT IS AND THE SHED THAT
WILL BE MOVING THEY ARE
ACTUALLY GOING TO TURN THAT
INTO SOMETHING ELSE WHICH IS
GOING TO BE YOU KNOW, WHERE THE
WHERE THE BENCHES WERE.
>> THEY'RE GOING TO HAVE SOME
SORT OF TEMPORARY OTHER I THINK
IT'S GOING TO BE A DIFFERENT
TRAILER FOR STORAGE.
>> SO THOSE PARKING SPOTS ARE
COMING BACK.
THE SHED IS GOING AWAY BECAUSE
NEEDED HELP ANYWAY.
IT'S NOT STRUCTURALLY THAT THAT
GOOD BUT THAT'S ANOTHER PLAN
AND THEY'RE HOPING TO BRING
THAT OVER MID-MARCH RIGHT
BEFORE THE DEMOLITION HAPPENS.
>> BUT YES, GOOD QUESTIONS AND
MY UNDERSTANDING IS THAT THE
SORT OF REVISIONING COMMUNITY
ENGAGEMENT WILL NOT ONLY BE THE
OFFICE BUT IT WILL BE THINKING
ABOUT THE ENTIRE MARKET SPACE
RACE NOT IN COMPLIANCE AND YOU
JUST MENTIONED THE THE POST'S
RIGHTS.
>> IT'S MEANT TO BE HOLISTIC
FOR SURE.
>> GREAT.
ANY OTHER THOUGHTS?
I GUESS STILL JUST GENERAL
WORRIES BECAUSE WE DON'T WHERE
FUNDING IS COMING FROM THAT
THIS WILL HAPPEN
.
>> SO IF THERE'S EVER
CLARIFICATION ABOUT WHAT THE
BUDGET WILL BE OR WHAT KIND
OF THINGS I KNOW WE DON'T HAVE
THE ACTUAL PROJECTS YET BUT IN
ORDER TO MAKE A PROJECT IT
SEEMS LIKE THERE HAS TO BE SOME
SORT OF CITY BUDGET FOR.
SO I'M STILL NERVOUS ABOUT THAT
COMPONENT AND AS YOU KNOW, THAT
HAS NOT BEEN DETERMINED BECAUSE
AGAIN THEY WERE FOCUSING
PRIMARILY ON THE DEMOLITION
SIDE BUT BEFORE WHEN THERE WAS
THOSE OTHER PROPOSALS ABOUT THE
BUILDING BACK IN TWENTY SIXTEEN
AND LIKE THAT MONEY IS STILL
AVAILABLE THAT DID NOT GO
ANYWHERE.
IT'S JUST THAT OBVIOUSLY WITH
THE COSTS OF CONSTRUCTION GOING
UP THAT IS A CONSIDERATION.
>> BUT YEAH I DON'T THINK THAT
THEY KNOW THAT INFORMATION YET.
>> OK, I THINK WE'RE ALL
WORRIED ABOUT FUNDING AND
PETER'S BEEN SAYING FOR YEARS
THAT MAYBE WE SHOULD CONSIDER
FUND RAISING AND I STILL THINK
THAT'S THAT'S A CONVERSATION
THAT I'D LIKE TO HAVE SOMEWHERE
DOWN THE LINE.
BUT AGAIN, THAT MIGHT BE
SOMETHING TO ASK PARKS TOO
BECAUSE I KNOW SINCE BEFORE WE
STARTED DOING THAT I WAS
SOMEWHAT EVEN BEFORE PARKS BUT
THEN WITH POST PARKS TOO THAT I
KNOW PARKS DOES HAVE SOME
MECHANISMS FOR THAT BUT I'M NOT
SUPER FAMILIAR WITH IT.
>> BUT IT DOES SEEM LIKE THAT
THAT IS A WAY HOW OFTEN THESE
THINGS DO GET FUNDED OR AT
LEAST A BIG CHUNK OF SEED
FUNDING AND SOMETIMES GET SO
YEAH.
SO WE'LL SEE THAT SOMETHING I
THINK IT'S WORTH PURSUING SO
YEAH.
>> YEAH I JUST ONE OTHER
QUESTION TOO ABOUT THE JUST THE
SITE THAT IS OF THE OFFICE WAS
THE CAN THAT WILL THAT BECOMES
ALL SPACE OR COULD THAT BECOME
STAR SPACE FOR THE SUMMER.
>> DEFINITELY WILL BE
TEMPORARILY GREAT TO BE WITH
THE DAILIES THEN OR WITH
WHATEVER YOU HAVE FIGURED OUT
WHAT IT IS BUT WHOEVER DECIDES
WHETHER THEY'RE EXECUTIVE WHO
GETS THERE FIRST IS SOMEBODY
THAT REALLY LIKES IT AND THEY
HAVE MORE SENIORITY.
>> THEY'RE GOING TO ARM
WRESTLING, WE ARM WRESTLE OR
AGAIN IT MIGHT BE OUR NEW EVENT
STAGE BECAUSE WE NEVER HAVE
SPACE AND NOBODY WANTS TO BE
NEXT TO A MUSICIAN.
>> SO THAT WOULD BE A REALLY
GOOD PLACE FOR MUSICIANS.
>> YOU COULD STILL HERE TO MAKE
SALES SO IT COULD BE IT COULD
BE A WIN OR IT COULD BE ALSO
WHERE WE PARK THE FOOD CART,
YOU KNOW, UNCLEAR.
YES.
ALL RIGHTY.
>> SO I GUESS THE NEXT ITEM IS
NEW BUSINESS NON AGENDA ITEMS.
ANYBODY HAVE ANYTHING TO ADD
THINKING ABOUT?
>> THANKS YOU GUYS.
THANK YOU NOT ALL RIGHTY OK, SO
NOW WE ARE ON TO OUR SECOND
PUBLIC COMMENT AND THIS IS NOT
LIMITED TO AGENDA ITEMS
.
>> I JUST STATE YOUR NAME
PLEASE GIRLY GAMES AND I'M A
VENDOR.
WE SELL PRODUCE AND PLANTS AND
CHRISTMAS WREATH AND I ASKED
STEPHANIE AND SHE SAID THAT THE
DEFINITION OF PRODUCER ARTISAN
ETC. THAT WAS STARTED A COUPLE
OF YEARS AGO PERHAPS HAS BEEN
PUT ON THE BACK BURNER AND I
THINK THAT WITH ALL THIS
PLANNING COMING AHEAD, THERE'S
NO SENSE TO WAIT TILL THAT'S
ALL DONE BECAUSE THAT'D BE
ABOUT THREE FOUR YEARS FROM
NOW.
SO I WOULD SUGGEST THAT WE JUST
GET A COMMITTEE TOGETHER AND
START WORKING ON IT.
I DON'T THINK IT NEEDS TO BE
REAL COMPLICATED OR TAKE A
REALLY LONG TIME.
I STARTED GLANCING A LITTLE BIT
ON THE INTERNET ABOUT SOME
DEFINITIONS AND I FOUND SOME
STUFF ON THERE THAT SEEMED LIKE
IT JUST IS EXACTLY WHAT WE NEED
.
SO THAT'S MY PROPOSAL THAT WE
GET STARTED ON IT.
>> I THINK THIS WAS TALKED
ABOUT BEFORE I WAS ON THE
COMMISSION.
WHAT IS THE IS THERE BACKGROUND
ON GOING ON HERE?
>> SO PRIOR TO COVID THE PRIOR
MARKET MANAGER WAS IN THE
PROCESS OF SORT OF LOOKING AT
THE PRODUCER ONLY GUIDELINES
THE MARKET AND SEEING IF
THERE'S A WAY THAT IT COULD
CLARIFY SOME GRAY AREAS AND WE
HAD STARTED A PRELIMINARY
CONVERSATION WITH VENDORS ABOUT
WHAT THAT COULD LOOK LIKE AND
WHAT THAT WOULD BE WHAT THE
WHAT THE GOAL OF MAKING AN
ACTUAL SUBCOMMITTEE WITHIN
T-MAC AND THEN, YOU KNOW, THE
MARKET THING HAPPENS WITH THE
BUILDING AND IT KIND
OF SIDELINE STUFF.
PLUS PEOPLE WANTED TO KNOW MORE
ABOUT THE PROCESS ITSELF
OF WHAT IT MEANS TO BE A
PRODUCER ONLY WHAT THAT MEANS
IN OUR CONTEXT AND AGAIN THAT
BEING SOMETHING VERY IMPORTANT
TO WHAT WE DO AND DEFINITELY WE
WANT TO HAVE IT.
BUT JUST SPECIFICALLY HOW DO WE
CLARIFY WHAT IT CAN BE AND WHAT
YOU KNOW, WHAT ARE SOME GRAY
AREAS THAT NEED TO BE
ADDRESSED?
I KNOW THERE'S BEEN A LOT
OF QUESTIONS AROUND
GREENHOUSE'S NURSERIES AND
PLANTS IN PARTICULAR, BUT
THAT'S NOT THE ONLY SET
OF QUESTIONS THAT HAVE COME UP
BUT THAT IS JUST ONE THAT'S
BEEN PERENA QUESTION.
>> I'M SORRY I HAD TO BUT THAT
IS ONE OF THE THINGS THAT
PEOPLE WANT TO LOOK AT.
>> I WOULD BE INTERESTED IN
BEING PART OF THAT SUBCOMMITTEE
BECAUSE I HAVE ACADEMIC
RESEARCH AND HAVE PRESENTED THE
DEFINITION OF PRODUCER ONLY SO
WELL WE WOULD LOVE THAT.
>> OK, SO PETER, I'M TRYING TO
REMEMBER WHAT WE DID WITH OUR
SUBCOMMITTEE FOR THE BYLAWS.
I MEAN IT WAS JUST YOU AND I
MEETING A FEW TIMES GOING OVER
THINGS I THINK IF I REMEMBER
RIGHT IT DOESN'T IT HAS TO HAVE
SOMEBODY FROM MACK ON IT IN
THEN BUT IT CAN IT IN OTHER
PEOPLE LIKE KALEEN COULD COULD
HELP TO THERE WE GO.
>> WE HAVE A COMMITTEE AND
JEFF, I THINK YOU HAD SOME
INPUT ON IT TOO.
YEAH.
AND WE JUST MET A COUPLE
OF TIMES AND WENT OVER THINGS
AND THEN BROUGHT IT TO MAC GOT
FEEDBACK FROM EVERYBODY REVISED
AND THEN FORWARD WE DID MAKE A
FAIR AMOUNT OF PROGRESS.
>> YEAH.
AT LEAST BEFORE ON THAT BEFORE
COVID HIT BUT THEN I DID
EVERYTHING WENT OUT THE WINDOW
WITH COVID.
>> YEAH I THINK WE'VE TALKED
ABOUT IT ONCE OR TWICE.
I THINK WE HAVE SINCE THEN.
>> SO THERE'S THERE'S SOME
MINING WITHIN OUR NOTES OF PAST
IF YOU GO BACK THROUGH REGISTAR
THEY'LL HAVE ALL THE HISTORY
WHICH IS A IT'S A REALLY IT'S
AN INTERESTING LITTLE WALK
THROUGH HISTORY BUT THEY DO
HAVE ALL THE DOCUMENTATION FOR
WHAT WAS DISCUSSED IN THAT WAY
TOO.
>> SO THAT THAT MIGHT BE A
START AT LEAST OF WE'RE BEYOND
JUST THE MEETING MINUTES OR
THEY'RE USUALLY A LOT
OF DOCUMENTS ASSOCIATED WITH
KIND OF LIKE PRIOR TO THAT
WHERE THERE ARE OTHER
ATTACHMENTS THAT WORK FOR
THINGS.
>> SO THAT WOULD BE WORTHWHILE
AND YEAH, FANTASTIC.
>> THERE MAY BE A DRAFT THAT'S
ON THE SHARE SHARED GOOGLE
DRIVERS SO TO BUT THE OTHER
THING TO TO KEEP IN MIND IS A
LOT OF THOSE CONVERSATIONS BUT
FOR TWENTY TWENTY WE'RE THINGS
THAT WERE LOGISTICALLY
DIFFICULT IF NOT IMPOSSIBLE FOR
MARKET TO ENFORCE LIKE HAVING
PEOPLE HAVE TO BE INSPECTED
MULTIPLE TIMES PER YEAR WHICH
ISN'T NECESSARY REALLY THAT
HELPFUL REALLY TO ANYONE
ESPECIALLY IF YOU'RE TRYING TO
FARM OR YOU'RE TRYING TO BE A
PRODUCER.
YOU DON'T YOU KNOW, THERE'S A
LOT OTHER THINGS GOING ON WE
DON'T NEED TO KEEP GOING THERE
AND THEN OTHER THINGS MAKING IT
LIKE TWO SPECIFIC WERE WE
ACTUALLY EXCLUDING PEOPLE THAT
ARE ALREADY VENDORS?
YOU KNOW, I KNOW THERE WAS ONE
WITH BES IT WAS JUST LIKE VERY,
VERY SPECIFIC THAT YOU HAVE TO
DO LIKE EVERY SINGLE ASPECT OR
YOU HAVE TO DO THREE OUT
OF FIVE OF THESE SPECIFIC ROLES
.
AND IS THAT NECESSARILY IN THE
SPIRIT OF WHAT WE WANT OR IS
THAT JUST MAKING IT A HARDSHIP
AND A BARRIER FOR OUR EXISTING
VENDORS TO COMPLY WITH THIS?
>> SO IT IS NECESSARY THAT
WHATEVER IS DECIDED WOULD
ALREADY ENCOMPASS ALL EXISTING
VENDORS OR YES, THERE WOULD BE
NO DISMISSAL OF CURRENT VENDORS
.
>> OK, YEAH YEAH NO I KNOW NOT
IDEAL BUT THAT JUST THIS YEAH
IT'S A CONTRACT.
YEAH IT'S AM I THINK YOU'RE THE
PERFECT PERSON TO BE THINKING
ABOUT THIS PHILOSOPHY YOU USE
THREE MINUTES SO YOU CAN KEEP
TALKING AS YOU SAY THAT THE
IDEA IS NOT TO ELIMINATE ANY
EXISTING VENDORS BUT YOU JUST
MAKE IT MORE CLEAR FOR NEW
APPLICANTS AND FOR VENDORS THAT
EXIST THAT ARE THERE NOW THAT
MIGHT WANT TO ADD A NEW PRODUCT
AND FOR THE MARKET MASTER WE
HAVE STEPHANIE NOW BUT THERE
WILL BE FUTURE MARKET MASTERS
TOO AND YOU WOULD JUST BE A
GOOD DESCRIPTION THAT WOULD BE
EASY FOR PEOPLE TO INTERPRET.
YEAH, WE NECESSARILY HAVE TO.
YOU SAID MAKE IT SO ENCOMPASSES
EVERYONE ON THE MARKET.
WHAT IF THERE WAS SOMEONE THERE
THAT WAS A GREAT I DON'T HAVE
ANYONE SPECIFICALLY IN MIND I'M
JUST ASKING YEAH.
>> I ALSO WASN'T IF I DON'T
KNOW IF THERE'S AN EXTREMELY
GRAY AREA WOULD IT BE UP AT ALL
TO HAVE LIKE A GRANDFATHER
CLAUSE?
>> I THINK THAT MAKES SENSE.
THAT'S WHAT I WAS THINKING FOR
SURE.
>> AND MOVING FORWARD RIGHT
THERE ALREADY IS FOR A FEW
PEOPLE ACTUALLY THAT PREDATE
ME.
SO YES, THERE'S DEFINITELY AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR THAT AND IN IN
THIS PARTICULAR CASE IT'S NOT
THE PEOPLE'S ONLY PRODUCT.
>> IT'S LIKE ONE OF MANY THAT'S
IN THIS GRAY AREA.
SO YES, DEFINITELY SOMETHING
THAT NEEDS TO BE DISCUSSED SO
DOESN'T NEED TO ENCOMPASS
EVERYONE THAT IS THERE
CURRENTLY THEN WELL IT NEEDS TO
BE DISCUSSED.
>> YOU KNOW, WE'RE NOT TRYING
TO EXCLUDE CURRENT LIKE THIS IS
WHAT I WAS TRYING TO SAY.
BUT IT'S OK TO SAY THAT CURRENT
GRAY AREAS COULD BE
GRANDFATHERED IN BUT MIGHT NOT
BE PART OF FURTHER RIGHT.
>> I MEAN IF THAT'S WHAT WE
CHOOSE IS THE WAY FORWARD, I'M
NOT SURE THAT IT IS I'M NOT
SAYING THAT EITHER.
GOT A LOT OF LIMITATIONS THAT
YOU HAVE TO.
RIGHT.
BUT THAT IS A WAY TO GET KIND
OF SIDESTEP SOME OF THAT IN
TERMS OF IT'S OK PEOPLE WHO ARE
ALREADY AND ARE THEN THEY'RE
SAYING THAT'S FINE.
>> YEAH, I DON'T KNOW.
IT'S JUST A COMPLETELY OPEN
CONVERSATION WITH NO WORRIES.
>> IT'S TOTALLY FINE.
YES.
AND I REMEMBER
WHEN THIS FIRST
CAME UP AND PETER CORRECT ME IF
I'M WRONG IT WAS FOR CLARIFIER
AND FOR THE INSPECTIONS FOR THE
MARKET FOR THE INSPECTOR WHO
WAS GOING OUT AND PART OF THAT
AS WELL.
>> BUT IT WAS NOT EXCLUSIVELY
THAT BECAUSE IT IS ALSO TO FOR
FOR US AS MARKETS TRYING TO
DISCERN WHETHER OR NOT SOMEBODY
FALLS IN THIS CATEGORY.
>> RIGHT.
OR FOR INSTANCE THERE'S BEEN
QUESTIONS TO GIVE AN EXAMPLE TO
BE A MEAT PRODUCER.
RIGHT.
YOU HAVE TO USE THE USDA
FACILITY.
>> YOU CAN'T JUST SLAUGHTER IT
YOURSELF AND SELL MARKET.
YOU CAN MAYBE DO THAT ON FARM.
YOU CAN MAYBE DO THAT IN A GRAY
AREA THROUGH CSA BUT YOU CANNOT
BRING THAT TO MARKET.
SO THEN SOMEWHAT ASK HOW IS
THAT DIFFERENT THAN YOUR
SAUSAGE BEING MADE BY A COPAC?
>> AND I THINK IT IS ACTUALLY
VERY DIFFERENT BUT THE QUESTION
WOULD BE EXPLAINING TO PEOPLE
THAT MIGHT NOT UNDERSTAND WHAT
THAT IS TO MAKE SURE THAT IT
ALSO SEEMS FAIR THAT WE'RE NOT
NIT PICKING OUR PEOPLE ARE THEN
AWARE ALSO OF HOW LICENSING
WORKS, HOW PROCESSING WORKS.
>> YOU KNOW WHAT I MEAN?
BECAUSE RIGHT NOW THAT'S WHY WE
DON'T HAVE MORE LIKE SALSAS AND
STUFF LIKE THIS IS BECAUSE
COPAC DOES NOT FIT WITHIN THE
PRODUCER ONLY GUIDELINES
WHEREAS FOR MEAT FOLKS LIKE
THEY HAVE NO OTHER CHOICE THEY
HAVE TO USE THIS THIRD PARTY
PERSON TO BE WITHIN COMPLIANCE
WITH FOOD SAFETY LAW.
>> SO I WOULD JUST BE AN
EXAMPLE AND THAT'S WHERE I
ACTUALLY HAVE KALEEN HAS LISTS
FROM OTHER OTHER MARKETS TO
EXAMPLES OF OTHER IDEAS THAT
THAT'S HELPFUL JUST IN TERMS
OF WE DON'T NEED TO REINVENT
ALL THE WHEEL OF THE WHEEL IN
THIS CASE IF THERE ARE GOOD
LANGUAGE, GOOD STRUCTURES THAT
OTHERS HAVE FIGURED OUT THAT WE
COULD ADOPT EVEN JUST PARTIALLY
I THINK THAT THAT'S THAT HELPS
US ALONG THE PATH A LOT.
>> AND I WILL SAY TOO THAT THIS
IS NOT JUST SOMETHING THAT'S
IMPORTANT TO US.
WE HAVE ALWAYS BEEN A PRODUCER
ON THE MARKET SINCE THE MARKET
BEGAN IN 1919 LIKE IT'S NEVER
NOT BEEN A PRODUCER ONLY MARKET
SO THAT'S THE OTHER THING I
JUST WANTED TO THROW OUT THERE.
IT'S NOT JUST IMPORTANT TO US.
>> IT IS WHAT THE MARKET HAS
ALWAYS BEEN SO ANY OTHER
COMMENTS
?
>> HI MY NAME IS DEBBIE MARKS
AND I'VE BEEN A VENDOR AT THE
ANN ARBOR FARMER'S MARKET FOR
THIRTY FOUR YEARS.
I'M VERY DISAPPOINTED WITH THE
PROGRESS ON THE COMMUNITY
INVOLVEMENT WITH THE PLANTS.
IT'S LIKE WE HAVE TO WAIT FOR
THIS AND WE HAVE TO WAIT FOR
THIS AND THE DEMOLITIONS AND
SHOVED BACK AND WE CAN'T HAVE
ANY BRAINSTORMING UNTIL THE
DEMOLITION IS DONE.
VERY DISAPPOINTING.
I THINK IT'S UNNECESSARY.
I HOPE WE DON'T HAVE TO WAIT
FOR ADAM AND REMY.
I WOULD HOPE I'M VERY
DISAPPOINTED THEY'RE NOT HERE
TO LEAD THIS.
WE DO NEED EVERYONE IN THE
COMMUNITY AND EVERYONE TO COME
TOGETHER FOR THE REASSESSMENT
OF THE MARKET.
WHERE ARE WE GOING?
WHAT ARE GOOD IDEAS?
WHAT AREN'T GOOD IDEAS?
THIS HAS BEEN HASHED OUT FOR
MANY YEARS.
WE NEED TO PICK UP THE BALL.
WE NEED SOMEONE THAT CAN DIRECT
THIS.
I REALLY HAD HOPED IT WAS ADAM
AND REMY.
THE DEMOLITION LOAN KEEPS
GETTING SHOVED BACK.
>> THIS IS TIME SENSITIVE.
WE DON'T WANT IT TO GET INTO
OUR BUSY SEASON.
YES, I KNOW THE DEMO HAD OTHER
CONTRACTS THAT HAD OTHER PLACES
THAT HAD TO DEMO BUT THIS IS
VERY TIME SENSITIVE WHY WE
WOULD HAVE TO WAIT FOR THIS
STEP BEFORE WE CAN EVEN
BRAINSTORM IS BEYOND ME.
>> I FEEL I GET THE FEELING
WE'RE GETTING SHOVED TO THE
BACK BURNER.
>> I THINK IT'S THIS MARKET IS
VERY IMPORTANT TO THE COMMUNITY
AND I THINK THE COMMUNITY WOULD
BE VERY EXCITED TO BE A PART
OF THE PLANNING AND I THINK WE
NEED TO MOVE FORWARD QUICKLY
AND A BIT AGGRESSIVELY WITH THE
ASSESSMENT OF THE MARKET.
WHERE IS IT GOING?
WHAT DO WE WANT WHAT DO WE WANT
IT TO LOOK LIKE?
WHAT ARE OUR FUNDING OPTIONS?
AND WE NEED A STRONG HAND AT
THE HELM HERE WITH THIS NOT
SOMEONE THAT KEEPS SHOVING TO
THE SIDE, SWEEPING IT UNDER THE
RUG AND KICKING THE CAN DOWN
THE ROAD.
I WOULD LIKE TO SEE THE
COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT START
IMMEDIATELY AND MAYBE IF THEIR
SCHEDULES ARE TOO TIGHT THEY
COULD MAYBE RECOMMEND SOMEONE
THAT COULD PUT US ON TRACK WITH
THIS AND HELP US MOVE FORWARD
WITH THIS IN A QUICKER MANNER.
THANK YOU.
>> THANKS DEBU
ANYTHING ELSE
ANY OTHER THOUGHTS?
ALL RIGHT.
ALL RIGHTY.
UM I THINK THAT MEANS WE'RE
DONE UNLESS ANYBODY'S THINKING
OF ANYTHING ELSE.
>> ALL RIGHT.
SO WE WILL ADJOURN A PUBLIC
MARKET MEETING AND IT IS SIX
EIGHTEEN.
>> GREAT.
THANK YOU.
>> OK TOGETHER OK THERE THERE
WE GO.
>> OH